#summary Configuration using DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

Doom and ZDaemon have traditionally employed the DMFLAGS and DMFLAGS2 configuration variables as shorthand for a number of boolean configuration options.  However, there are now over 50 of these variables and the use of DMFLAGS and DMFLAGS2 has become irritating and obscure, despite being a great way to encapsulate and communicate many server settings.

== Why do DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2 suck? ==

Well, here's a list:

  * ZDaemon's DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2 combine over 50 different options, making it impossible to remember them all.
  * The separation between DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2 is silly and confusing; there should be no such separation, unless the goal is to make using the variables even more difficult.
  * Every DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2 has a corresponding option, like sv_oldwallrun, etc., so they're redundant (and thus useless).
  * Precedence of the DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2 or its corresponding long option is decided by its location in the zserv.cfg configuration file; options further down take precedence, which leads to confusion during the configuration process.
  * DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2 aren't standard across Doom source ports, so any knowledge you might have accumulated with a different source port is useless, and you get to learn a whole new set of arbitrary, obscure numbers if you want to use DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2.
  * You always need a separate program to figure out what variables you need, whether this be a web-based calculator or a calculator built into your launcher, you're still launching an entirely separate program just to "encode" your options.

== Why doesn't ZDStack just figure out what I want? ==

Because it's impossible.  You can specify `allow_target_names = yes` in the zdstack.ini file, and then override it later on in that file with a `dmflags` declaration.  Other than some crappy, arbitrary solution (like options lower in the file take precedence or dmflags/long options always take precedence) ZDStack can't possibly figure out what you mean.  So it just won't allow you to use DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2 in the configuration file.

== But what if someone gives me DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2 when requesting a server? ==

You can use the handy `dmflags` script!  It converts DMFLAGS/DMFLAGS2 into zdstack.ini options.