#summary Instructions for installing ZDStack.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Recommended Steps To Install ZDStack =

These steps will install ZDStack for a specific user only.  System-wide installation is not recommended, just as running ZDStack as root is not recommended.

  # Download ZDStack
  # Download and install the [http://code.google.com/p/zdstack/wiki/Requirements requirements]
  # `$ tar xjf ZDStack-*.tar.bz2`
  # `$ cd ZDStack-*`
  # `$ python setup.py install --prefix=~/ZDStack`
  # Add `~/ZDStack/lib/python<pythonversion>/site-packages/ZDStack` to the PYTHONPATH environment variable ([http://code.google.com/p/zdstack/wiki/PythonPath instructions])
  # Install the ZDStack configuration file

Windows users can just use ZDStack's Windows installer.

= Installing the Example Configuration File =
  `zdstack` and `zservctl` will look in the following locations for a configuration file:
  * ./zdstackrc
  * ./zdstack.ini
  * ~/.zdstackrc
  * ~/.zdstack.ini
  * /etc/zdstackrc
  * /etc/zdstack.ini
  * /etc/zdstack/zdstackrc
  * /etc/zdstack/zdstack.ini

For system-wide installations (not recommended), the preferred location is `/etc/zdstack/zdstackrc`.  For user-local installations, the preferred location is `~/.zdstackrc`.

Windows users will notice that the installer creates a `zdstack-example.ini` file in their home folder.  They should edit that file to their liking (specifically database options), and rename it to .zdstackrc.  Because Windows is silly, you might have to do this from a `cmd` window.  I'll see about a better way to handle this at some point.