#summary Running ZDStack from the command-line
#labels Featured

=Overview=
Controlling ZDStack is done with 2 programs, `zdstack` and `zservctl`.  The [http://code.google.com/p/zdstack/wiki/ZDSWeb ZDSWeb] web-interface can also control individual zserv processes.

=zdstack=

`zdstack` manages the ZDStack process as a whole.  You can start/stop/restart ZDStack using this.

{{{
Usage: zdstack [ start | stop | restart | reload-config ] -c [ config_file ]
}}}
Use of `-c` is optional; `zdstack` actually looks in lots of standard places for a configuration file, so most of the time you won't have to specify this.

=zservctl=

`zservctl` manages individual ZServ instances.  Here's the usage information:

{{{
Usage:
    zservctl start -n [ zserv_name ] -c [ config_file ]
    zservctl stop -n [ zserv_name ] -c [ config_file ]
    zservctl restart -n [ zserv_name ] -c [ config_file ]
    zservctl start-all -c [ config_file ]
    zservctl stop-all -c [ config_file ]
    zservctl restart-all -c [ config_file ]
}}}

It's important to note that `zdstack reload-config` must be run after making changes to the configuration files, otherwise the changes won't be recognized.

=zdstackrc=

`zdstackrc` contains server configuration information.  `zdstack` and `zservctl` look for this file in the following locations (in order):

  * ./zdstackrc
  * ./zdstack.ini
  * ~/.zdstackrc
  * ~/.zdstack.ini
  * /etc/zdstackrc
  * /etc/zdstack.ini
  * /etc/zdstack/zdstackrc
  * /etc/zdstack/zdstack.ini

When one of these files is found, it is used, and the ones below are ignored.

=Examples=

To add a server:
{{{
$ ### Edit Config Here ###
$ zdstack reload-config
$ zservctl start -n 'Public ZD CTF'
}}}

If you want to remove this server, run:

{{{
$ zservctl stop -n 'Public ZD CTF'
$ ### Edit Config Here ###
$ zdstack reload-config
}}}

If you want to change the wads and name of a server, say from ZD CTF to Odamex CTF, do the following:

{{{
$ zservctl stop -n 'Public ZD CTF'
$ ### Edit Config Here ###
$ zdstack reload-config
$ zservctl start -n 'Public ODA CTF'
}}}