#summary XML-RPC Methods and Description

=== start_zserv() ===
  Description: Starts a zserv process.

  Usage: {{{start_zserv(zserv_name)}}}

  Returns: True if succeeded

=== stop_zserv() ===
  Description: Stops a zserv process.

  Usage: {{{stop_zserv(zserv_name)}}}

  Returns: True if succeeded

=== restart_zserv() ===
  Description: Restarts a zserv process.

  Usage: {{{restart_zserv(zserv_name)}}}

  Returns: True if succeeded

=== get_uptime() ===
  Description: Gets the uptime for a zserv process.

  Usage: {{{get_uptime(zserv_name)}}}

  Returns: An int value of the number of seconds the zserv process has been running.  This value is for the internal zserv process, and not the ZDStack process as a whole.

=== get_zserv() ===
  Description: Gets a dict of zserv info.

  Usage:{{{get_zserv(zserv_name)}}}

  Returns: a ZservDict.

=== get_current_map() ===
  Description: Gets a dict of the current map's statistics and info.

  Usage:{{{get_map(zserv_name, map_number)}}}

  Returns: a MapDict.

=== get_team() ===
  Description: Gets a dict of team statistics and info.

  Usage: {{{get_team(zserv_name, team_color)}}}

  Returns: A TeamDict.

=== get_player() ===
  Description: Gets a dict of player statistics and info.

  Usage: {{{get_player(zserv_name, player_name)}}}

  Returns: A PlayerDict.

=== get_all_zservs() ===
  Description: Gets all dicts of zserv info

  Usage: {{{get_all_zservs()}}}

  Returns: A list of ZservDict instances.

=== get_all_maps() ===
  Description: Gets all dicts of map statistics and info.

  Usage: {{{get_all_maps(zserv_name)}}}

  Returns: A list of MapDict instances.

=== get_all_teams() ===
  Description: Gets all dicts of team statistics and info.

  Usage: {{{get_all_teams(zserv_name)}}}

  Returns: A list of TeamDict instances.

=== get_all_players() ===
  Description: Gets all dicts of team statistics and info.

  Usage: {{{get_all_teams(zserv_name)}}}

  Returns: A list of PlayerDict instances.